- measures the _strength_ of relation between the variable $x$ and $y$
- The correlation coefficient of $x , y$  is denoted by $r$
- formula:
	- $$r = \frac{cov(x,y)}{\sigma_x.\sigma_y}$$
	- $cov(x,y)$ = [[5.Covariance|covariance]] 
	- $\sigma$ = [[Standard_deviation & coefficient|Standard Deviation]]
## properties of Correlation coefficient
- it is an relative measure i.e 
	 - They are pure numbers (dimensionless, without units).  
	 - They are independent of the origin and scale of the data.  
- it lies between $-1$ to $+1$  
### interpretation and the use of r
- if r is positive it indicates if one very well increase another as well increase , and if r is negative, variable will decrease as one decrease , if there is no correlation
- $r^2$= measures how well the regression model fits the data
	- another interpretation of the square of [[8.explained, unexplained variation|correlation coefficient]]
- reflects the strength of the relationship between $X$ and $Y$
### Limitations
- **The correlation coefficient only measures the degree of a linear relationship.** If the relationship is **nonlinear**, the value of \( r \) will not accurately represent the strength of their association. 
- A poor correlation value (\( r \) close to 0) does not rule out a strong nonlinear association.A small or near-zero value of \( r \) does not always mean that the variables are unrelated. It could indicate that their association is **nonlinear** rather than absent.
- To avoid misinterpretation, always **plot a scatter diagram** to visually assess the nature of the relationship between variables before relying on \( r \).
- the high values of r between two variables, maybe caused due to the influence of third variable.
- sometimes there is high relationship between two variables, which has no logical basis for any relationship between them. They are called nonsense, correlation or spurious correlation.
- if the data lacks uniformity or similarity, the coefficient correlation might give us the wrong assumption about the data


---
Tags: #data-engineering #sql


#Regression_and_Correlation
